Angel investor – An individual or institution who provides funding during the initial stage of a new venture.  Term  is taken from the financing of Broadway stage plays, where early investors were considered “angels” in providing the upfront capital  to a support Broadway play — and possibly risked losing their entire investment if the play failed to find an audience.

Bootstrap financing – Building a business with little or minimal outside capital.

Breakeven point – The point at which a business’ revenue equals its expenses and where it no longer incurs a loss but has yet to make a profit.

Business model – The methodology of how a business plans to make a profit, taking into account its strategy to generate revenue and utilize expenses.

Business plan – A written document that provides a scenario of how a business will do over the next year or several years.  A good business plan includes a mission statement, business model,  marketing plan,  profit-and-loss statement,  cash flow statement,  breakeven estimates,  and background of the entity’s key principals.

Capital – The external funds used to support a business.  Examples of capital include equity provided by shareholders or loans provided by individuals or a financial institution.  Capital is different than revenue, which are internal funds provided by the operations of a business.

Cash flow – A metric to measure the inflow or outflow of cash to a business.  Positive cash flow means that a business is taking in more cash than it spends.  Negative cash flow is the opposite.  Achieving positive cash flow is an important milestone for most start-ups.  Key maxim for running a business:  Cash is king.

Daily newspaper – A printed newspaper that has the frequency of being printed each day.

Dashboard – Online or printed summary sheet where the key metrics for running a company appear.

Demographics – The composition of the people living within a specific area as often defined by age, gender, education, ethnicity, income and occupation.

Elevator Pitch – The concept of being able to successfully sell your idea in a sentence or two.  Premise is that you should be able to sell your idea to people you meet in an elevator and in the time of the elevator ride.

Employees – Individuals who work full-time or part-time for a specific company and are usually paid benefits, such as vacation time and health insurance.

Expenses – Funds used by a business to create goods and services.  Examples of  specific expenses would include employee salaries, material, contractor services, insurance, payroll taxes, etc.

Entrepreneur – An individual who takes the risk in establishing a new venture.

Facebook – Online social media site where friends share posted messages and exchange photos.

Family, friends and fools – Also known as the "3Fs," initial source of capital for many start-ups, both successful and unsuccessful.

Hyper-local – Term used to describe news coverage of a highly targeted geographic area, such as specific suburban cities.  AOL’s use of Patch is an example of hyper-local news coverage.

Independent Contractors – Individuals who work for a company on a project and part-time basis and are usually not entitled to paid benefits, such as vacation time or health insurance.

Online Advertising – Revenue generated through the posting of advertising on a site.  Types of online ads include banner, tile, tower, and Google Ad Word links.

Page Views – A metric used in the digital world that counts how many cumulative pages have been viewed by users on a specific site.

Payroll – Cumulative salaries paid to employees of a specific company.  An expense item.

Pivotal Change – Term often used to describe a  sudden  change in an entity’s business model.  “Plan B” is usually used to describe the deployment of a new business model after the original “Plan A” model.

Revenue – Funds generated by the internal operations of  a business,  sometimes called as ‘income’.   For media companies, examples of revenue include advertising fees and subscription fees.

Risk – The degree of uncertainty in a business.   Most entrepreneurs would seek to minimize risk in order to better maximize their return on capital investment.

Scenario – A predicted financial situation under certain conditions.  Usually different scenarios  — best case, worst case, and most-likely case — are used to measure  the risks of a business through scenario planning.

Seed money – Initial capital provided by initial investors to start a business.  This seed money can either be provided as equity investments in or loans to a business.

Smart phones – Phones that have the ability to connect to the internet and take photos and videos  as opposed to basic  cellular phones, that can only send and receive basic voice and data text transmission.    Apple’s iPhone and Google’s Android phones are examples of smart phones.

Social media – The ability to connect to friends online and share information on  specific sites.  Facebook and Twitter are examples of social media sites.

Stakeholders – Different constituents who have either a financial or emotional interest in a business.  Stakeholders may include shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers.

SWOT – A type of planning analysis that looks at a business’ Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats.  Strengths and Weaknesses are usually considered internal factors and Opportunities and Threats are usually considered external factors.

Tablets – Mobile devices that allows users to be connected to the Internet.  Tablets can also be used as e-readers..  Unlike PCs, tablets are often used more to consume content instead of creating content.   Apple’s iPad and Samsung’s Galaxy are examples of tablets.

Tabloid – A newspaper format this is usually around 12 inches high x  11 inches wide.  Half the size of the broadsheet format, tabloids take up less space when open and are more popular in major metropolitans with strong public transportation systems.

Tweeting – The process of sending a message over Twitter.

Twitter – Online site where users can tweet messages to their followers in 140 characters or less.

Unique visitors – An online metric that counts the number of individuals who have visited a specific site within a specific timeframe.   Visitors using the same computer to access a specific site are only counted once, even if they may visit the site several times within the specific timeframe.

Weekly newspaper – A printed newspaper that has the frequency of being published once a week.

Zoned sections – Term used by newspapers to describe their sections delivered to only  targeted readers within a specific geographic area.  Many newspapers have traditionally used zoned sections to provide local news about a specific geographic area.  Zone sections are the opposite of full-run sections, which is distributed to all of the newspaper’s readers.
